this astonishing cave is near the small
town of white Omo in New Zealand
each light comes from the back end of a
lava as it lies in a transparent tube of
mucus slung from the ceiling by silken
threads and it's produced by
phosphorescent chemicals in a special
compartment opening from the side of its
intestine the silk comes from glands at
the other end
inside the lavas mouth the larvae move
around they fix a silk thread the rock
and slowly inch their way over the
ceiling along a network of threads
arriving in a new position the larva
produces more silk but this time it
allows the thread to dangle downwards as
each section emerges from its mouth the
larva the gulp adds a blob of glue
eventually a single strand maybe a meter
long
there can be several hundred larvae in a
single square meter of cave roof and
they all work hard producing strand
after strand the more they make the
greater their chances of catching
something below mayfly are hatching from
the stream that runs through the cave
they've been carried in here by the
current from outside as larvae now they
must look for a mate but they find the
blue lights above irresistible and
they're called
[Music]
the fungus gnat detects its victim
struggles from lines that run between
the threads having made a capture it
turns off its light that saves energy
laborious ly it makes its way across to
the thread from which the vibrations are
coming it holds it up and eats what's
hanging on the end it also eats the
filament that saves silk
this wonderful hunting technique is just
one of an enormous number of varied ways
in which animals use silk silk really is
an extraordinary material it's stronger
than a steel thread at the same diameter
and unlike steel it's elastic it can
stretch up to twice its length
you